well howdy there internet people its Bo
again tonight we're gonna talk about how
we talk about climate change because a
large part of the problem and I think
one of the reasons nothing's being done
is because how we frame it how we
discuss it and it starts with the media
the media you know they get some
scientists and they interview and then
they take a soundbite and they put that
soundbite out there and so people get
the idea that we have 12 years to do
something what does that even mean
seriously in 12 years does the world end
do we get flooded and microwaved what
what happens it's a complex subject and
it's not something that can be done in
sound bytes that's the problem
but Americans love sound bytes they like
things to be simple clean neat like a
plot they can follow and they want a
magic bullet okay so we've got 12 years
to do something well it's really 11 now
but this is how that number came about
in 2018 the Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change met and they set out to
decide and come up with ways to stop the
world's global temperature average
temperature from rising 1.5 degrees
Celsius they came up with a timetable to
get to net zero no co2 emissions by 2050
and in order to do that we have to be on
a path to get there by 2030 that was 12
years at the time and we need to
basically have emissions fall by about
45% by then so we could get to zero by
2050 2050 is actually the important date
kind of to put this in terms everybody's
going to understand the emissions are an
18 lower just driving down the road it's
currently accelerating we have to start
to slow down now so by the time we get
to exit 2050 we're at zero because an
18-wheeler doesn't stop on a dime
neither do carbon emissions okay so is
there doomsday
2030 no no things just start to get
worse things start to get worse but the
media portrays it is doomsday rather
than working towards a goal we have to
meet by 2050 to avoid very very bad
outcomes that would be the rational way
to explain it but we don't live in a
rational world when you tell people this
they say well we've heard this before
we've heard projections about this or
that or whatever yeah and we did stuff
that's the real reason your gas mileage
improved that's why you have countries
using cleaner energies now so why your
cars really made out of plastic to
lighten it reduce emissions there's a
whole bunch of things that have been
done that's why the date keeps getting
moved back now as far as deadlines
we're passed some of them we're already
passed some of them and we're going to
see bad outcomes from it
we're trying to mitigate so what does it
take to mitigate we can frame it as a
giant environmental effort nobody's
going to care nobody's going to care
what is it at its core it's an
infrastructure project it is an
infrastructure project to bring about
clean energy it's what it is we've had
massive infrastructure projects before
indoor plumbing getting ready for the
automobile and pavers the internet all
of this stuff are infrastructure
projects that's what it is that's what
it is now if we don't do it what do we
end up with the Antarctic and Greenland
they're ice sheets or probably already
past the tipping point at least to some
degree if we lose all of the ice caps we
could get something called a blue ocean
event and that's just all bad things go
real bad from there where we're talking
like doomsday scenarios Michael Bay
movie type things more immediately
habitats change the heat becomes
unbearable people can't live in certain
areas we get more refugees rising sea
levels stuff like this that's the that's
what we're trying to prevent that's the
negative outcome if we don't engage in
an infrastructure project and that's how
we have to frame it and the good news is
that Trump gave us the perfect way to
frame it and the perfect way to get it
done we are probably headed into a
recession
the inverted yields that we talked about
the other day those are bigger than
they've been at any point since 2007
before the last recession so that's
probably gonna happen
and when it does we're not doing an
environmental effort we've got an
economic stimulus package a jobs program
call it whatever you want but that's
gonna be the perfect time to do it that
is going to be the perfect time to do it
a lot like the New Deal I want like the
New Deal the clean energy and the change
in environment well that's just a bonus
that's just a bonus that's not why we're
doing it we're doing it to help the
economy people care about that as sad as
that is so we've been handed a golden
opportunity by the President of the
United States a he has taught us that
the average American especially those
who are still denying climate change or
just don't want to look into it enough
they don't look into anything you can
call this program whatever you want
they're not going to look into it they
don't care they don't care and the
recession gave it's going to give us the
perfect cover to do it this is how it's
gonna have to be done we are running out
of time to sit there and act as if all
ideas are equal when it comes to the
debate over climate change something
else the media does is they try to frame
it as if there's a discussion there's
not the science on this stuff oh it's
real clear it is real clear and it's
real simple
so we have the opportunity we know what
needs to be done we just need to be
ready for it and the next administration
whichever it is needs to be prepared to
seize upon that moment when the
recession hits this is your economic
stimulus package this is how you're
going to put people back to work and
that is going to be an easier sell than
trying to get people to read anyway it's
just a fault y'all have a good night